Everyone, let's find the longest in reading sequence of the series.
This is a simple error.
And number two random words to find what is the longest increasing sequence in this page?
Of course, it's the dynamic programming course and will be using the in this or just think like positively
and think about it by of course by learning something from the above examples.
It's very similar to this problem and it's it's also very similar to this problem and it's also very
similar to this problem that we have all discussed.
It's only about making connections.
It's about thinking one step back.
Right.
So, yeah.
So what are the longest increasing?
As we all know, so many sequences are possible for this array so we can see that it's learned this
drill.
So there are two to the power sequences minus one.
If I remove the empty one and these many sequences are possible and so there will be again seven sequences
of length one and to do with this relative to for length two and so on.
But what I have to do is out of all these sequences, I have to find F to find the length of longest
in creating sequence.
If I'm able to find the length of longest in creating sequence, I will also be able to find.
This sequence, right?
I was I always told you whenever you applied and programming and filled some states, that particular
state, which is the final answer, is actually coming from some previous state.
Right.
Which is also coming from some previous state and so on.
So we can always respected and we programming coalition always.
Yeah.
So in this also, we saw that we we were we were able to trace back the answers because every state
comes from some other state and we just have to trace back the origin of the final state.
Well, yeah.
So let's understand this.
So initially what we'll do is we'll make a state.
So we'll make a state.
And I've already told you this point, I always start from one end is a basket, then add some more,
then add some more, then add some more.
So on the backward induction method, it will help you reach to the recursive solution.
So.
Yeah.
Let's make us two.
Let's say FAA or ethics eight.
What else is a layers of.
A sequence.
Let's lend.
Land of is.
Okay, fine.
Her longest increasing sequence means the number only the land on the right.
Don't think it's the sequence.
It's a number.
What is the length of the longest increasing sequence?
It's.
I'm just saying.
Is that a yes of this sequence?
If.
You don't one.
And Son, I.
Okay.
So, um, yeah.
So once I was teaching this to some student and he asked me this, doubt it.
Why don't we sort it out?
If we started, we'll get the longest increasing sequence.
Well, that's not the solution paid by because we cannot support it.
We cannot change the order.
If I change the order of this sequence, it won't be it won't be a sequence anymore.
For example, let's see if I take this seven, eight, 44, eight, and here seven, eight and 44 is
an increasing sequence.
It may or may not be longest, including sequence, but it's an increasing sequence.
I cannot change the order in which I have to pick up the sequences.
I cannot change the order of the number.
If seven comes before eight in the original sequence, it will come before ordered in the increasing
subsequent as a.
So.
Okay.
Let me like quickly rephrase it.
It can also be said longest increasing subsequent rate by subsequent gains because.
We need to maintain the property in the order of the value later.
Don't get confused from date.
Yeah.
So we cannot sort it in final and otherwise it will always be done.
So will always be equal to the length of the original sequence.
Because if I started, every sequence can be the longest, including sequence.
But we don't want it.
We'll just remove it from what we might.
And I guess of a sequence if it ends on X or date.
So yeah, there's always some confusion between our Unix in my mind of.
That means if it ends on the next index looks at index.
So hit X's index eight, it's called X's index eight.
Now let me index it quickly.
Zero one, two, three, four.
Let's start from the left side, which is the backward indication.
Let's say my ad is only this one and it's 730, the length of the longest increasing sequence that is
on seven.
That ends on seven.
It's only one rate.
That means land will be won by because its only one number.
Length is only one eight.
Now let's.
Come on.
49.
What will be the length of the longest in sequence if it ends on 49?
If you remember what we always say, if something is ending on some.
If a particular sequence is ending on 49, then there has to be a second end of the second, after which
I'll try to apply 49 eight.
So as we know, it is the longest increasing sequence of 49.
If 49 comes after some other ending, let's say there was some ending before 49 and now I want to apply
49 after it.
Then what should that ending contain?
That ending the number, that ending should be less than equal to 49 eight.
So if I want to provide something to a particular ending, of course I want if I want to append, why
do it?
That means that X should be less than equal to it.
Again, can I apply?
Can I say that the longest ingredient sequence of our training can we do?
Because it will come off to seven, it can come off to seven or eight.
But if I have this area, that means seven and 14 and can make the longest ingredient sequence eight.
Let me quickly.
I do.
I hope you understood why I have this, too, because now I can come up to seven.
So basically this transition.
7 to 14.
Well what?
So the best ending to the ending of the sequence was ending on seven.
The best ending was one ride, and after that I applied for the name.
Now let's talk about 23.
This is a good case.
Tell me and 23 transition after 14.
And can can this be a sequence like 49 and then 23?
No.
Right.
I want an increasing sequence.
The previous number should be less than the current number.
Less than or equal to.
Look, can I make this transition?
Yes, I again.
What was the best ending on seven?
That's my answer.
The longest increase in sequence of the previous edit.
If it ended on seven and it's kept here.
This is the fixed values, all the deep values that I'm storing.
What what was the length of the longest ingredient sequence which ended on seven?
This one.
What will be the answer for the current one?
423 it will come after seven, seven plus one, which is two.
I hope you got this right.
If I sequence and search 23 for this area, then the longest including sequence is to.
Well, I hope you're getting this now.
Now it's only about making one transition, but we lose make one transition at a time.
And finally, it will give us the whole answer.
The step was being applied.
Here we are making one transition at a time.
We were looking at our one, one particular jump.
We never said, I'll make two jumps.
Right?
So you might remember that when I want you to calculate it, I'll just go back once, go back once or
go backwards.
There's only one transition from it.
I'm not saying I go back to seven and then to six.
No, I'm not saying I'll go to seven and then do four.
No, eight.
It's always about making one transition at 38.
If I take one step at a time, it will finally give me the whole answer.
Eight Similarly, similarly in this.
Yeah.
Let's talk about it.
So.
So can it come after seven years?
Can it come after 49?
No.
Can it come after 23?
Basically.
Again, 49 and 23 support it.
Can they included in their sequence nor date?
If they cannot include them in this sequence, then we can't use their maximum endings.
What we'll do is we'll just.
Use this maximum ending of seven.
And this transition is it so basically one plus one again to will now be of us kids which is 30.
Let's talk about today.
Nothing goes.
But they can come after seven because seven is less than 30 can come after 23.
It can also come after it.
Tell me.
What's your to do to have to find the longest increasing sequence the party should think about which
of these numbers is giving its best ending?
Eight.
So if seven seven is giving in one, 23 is giving him two and it is giving him two.
If seven gives 27 gives one and all these gifts two, then of course, 30 will go with.
To write.
It can ever come after it.
It can ever come up to 23.
I we are getting this because both of them are giving the best possible ending for today, which is
to basically what will the venue for today will be two plus one.
I regard this so it doesn't matter whether it comes from 23 or it indirectly this this.
It or it can be this it's.
I'm just making some previous transitions and we are getting this one level thing about two transitions.
Like previous and previous, no listing one previous because that previous is already taught about its
previous age.
Or similarly, it's all going to the beginning.
It's about one step at a time.
Well, now let's understand this.
22.
So what all values?
1122.
We can see seven and eight, which is giving it a best ending.
It is giving it the best ending because of the store value rate.
So it would 23, so 22 would most likely upend up to it.
It will be three in this case.
I'm just feeling up some deep values now.
I'm just trying to make you realize how is it working?
By making some previous transitions and.
Whatever.
So if I want to end on 44, then here I can see in except 49.
All of them can give an ending to 44.
Is the best ending that 444 can get.
You can get the best ending from 30.
You can also get the best ending from 22 eight.
So.
So we are just worried about the land trade.
We are not worried about.
What should be the sector?
What should be the options in finding all the options that will come in the coming election where we
are just worried about this, which is.
Yeah.
So this is a follow up question.
I would want you to try this follow up question is very simple.
I note the number of longest increasing sequences I am noticing.
The length of longest English sequences, the number.
How many how many ways in which I can find it and find the longest increasing sequence in this area.
Just just try this by yourself, because we'll also see this again in the comment section.
Well so yeah love about 44 it can be forward because any three plus one and now let's talk about 28
it can come after seven or eight or 22 as well.
So I think 22 will give it the best ending.
So a three plus one is four.
Similarly for 23, again, I think 22 can give it the best ending rate again before.
So I we are getting this by four because it comes after 22.
This 22 came after it.
They say it came after seven.
It's four eight.
So this is a sequence that I'm trying to form.
It.
Yeah.
It's one word.
Nine.
Nice.
The nine can come up to seven or eight.
Of course it should.
It will better it appends after it.
It uses it because it gives it a better ending, which is to rates are two plus one is three and 440.
What I can see is.
Hmm.
Okay.
So 40.
So here we have the best ending.
Three fourths.
And I can't use 44 because of 40.
I can use 28 and I can use any eight.
Basically, 40 will have five in my.
L.A. is value eight because it can come up with 28 or 23.
Now the last one is 15 over 15 can come after nine, of course, but it cannot come after a forward
23 years.
It can come after it also after seven.
Which of these three is giving the best ending to 15?
Nine is giving the best ending to 15.
So basically it will be four.
I have taken 15 in this example for a specific reason.
Eight.
It doesn't mean that the last index will have the best answer.
The longest increasing sequence does not have to end on the last index.
I hope this is very clear.
We've only also seen this in previous.
Examples as well.
Not necessarily.
That last index will always have the final answer.
Right, because it only tells us if 15 is included.
And what's the best answer?
But what if 15 is not the part of the longest increasing sequence?
Right.
So here what I can see is the maximum values, right?
That means the 11 by 40, which is indirectly found by 23, which is indirectly found by 22, which
is indirectly followed by eight and which is entirely followed by seven.
This is the longest in creating sequence of this particular area.
I hope you caught this.
I said, How is this five value coming here?
Well, but this was about longer singing and sequins in the next video recorded.
And see the complexity of this.
And then we'll try to optimize the complexity.
But this is one dynamic work wrap programming approach of longest ingredient sequence or data that the
but will also discuss that later in the.
Thank you.